---
version: "1.0"
release_date: "2025-03-04"
sidebar_position: -4
---

# Release Notes for 1.0.0

Cursorless if finally ready for its 1.0.0 release!

Over the last year the Cursorless team has focused primarily on the user experience and migrating legacy language scopes. During 2024 we merged [299 PRs](https://github.com/cursorless-dev/cursorless/pulls?q=merged%3A2024+sort%3Aupdated-asc+) and so far during 2025 [100+ PRs](https://github.com/cursorless-dev/cursorless/pulls?q=merged%3A2025+sort%3Aupdated-asc+). We are now at a point where we feel Cursorless is ready for its first official release.

Here are a few highlights of the things we have done / achieved:

- Added a Cursorless tutorial in vscode
- Simplify the installation process by notifying the user if they are missing essential features like Talon or the command server.
- Migrated all the text based scopes and most of the language specific ones from our old legacy definitions to use next-gen gen scope definitions. You can now say things like `"take two items"`.
- Deprecated the Cursorless snippets in favor of the [community snippets](https://github.com/talonhub/community/tree/f7e5f9696c7ed6e78e8488c8b7fb1c6bbcc25779/core/snippets)
- We now have over `10 000`! tests in total. Testing everything from actions and scopes to the Talon grammar.
- We have also added more actions, modifiers, scopes support for more languages, fixed bugs and so on.

## What's next?

- We will continue to improve language definitions. There are still some languages where features are missing or still in legacy.
- Improving documentation. This is an area where we would really appreciate [contributions](https://github.com/cursorless-dev/cursorless/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Adocumentation).
- Cursorless everywhere. We now have users working on Cursorless for multiple new editors. The future for Cursorless everywhere is really interesting.
